---
- 2 -
quite correct. I have searched for another word, and finally found
one, namely "pariwisata". "Pari" means "all around", "pariwisata" there-
fore, stands for "excursions all around" or "tourism all over the world".
I request the journalists to popularize the words "darmawisata" and
"pariwisata". As I said before, one of my tasks today is to inspect
a place together with Sri Sultan Hamengku Buwono, which we hope will be
a good object for "darmawisata" and "pariwisata".
The other duty I have to perform today is the official opening
of the Tjikotok goldmine. Behind me here I have noticed a written slog-
gam: "Only unity and vigilance can save our country". I fully agree
with it. But it is not enough. In order to save our country and make it
strong we have to meet three requirements; this I said already at the
beginning of our revolution.
These three requirements are: political, military and economic defensi-
bleness. They constitute an absolute prerequisite in order to build up
our country into a strong one. Fortunately we are heading in the right
direction and step by step we are on our way towards the fulfilment of
those three requisites.
We have demonstrated lately that our political defensibleness is
becoming stronger. What are the contents of this political defensi-
bleness? Simply this: nothing less than a united Republik of Indonesia
over a territory stretching from Sabang to Merauke! Our Republik was
established on the 17th of August 1945 out of a conviction which has
grown within us for scores of years; the conviction that we are one
nation, that we wanted to achieve independence, that we wanted to
establish a nation whose structure is a united republik. This convic-
tion is becoming more and more deeply rooted in the hearts of the
Indonesian people, and although during the past few months adventures
have tried to undermine this spirit, the Indonesian people have de-
monstrated their unshakable belief in a policy of unity and a united
Republik
ARSIP NASIONAL REPUBLIK INDONESIA
---

Perlu dicatat bahwa beberapa bagian kata agak kabur dalam gambar, tetapi saya telah berusaha sebaik mungkin untuk mentranskripsikan teks secara akurat.
